1. What is a biohazardous material?
   Any material that is possibly contaminated with blood, bodily fuilds,
   or other dangeous substances, dangerous either to a person or their
   surroudings. Toxins, bacteria, and other hazards are also included.
   Search engine: Google
   key words: "Biohazardous" "Material"
   site or sites: OSHA.gov and ucsd.edu
   evaluation: The UC San Diego site gave a very brief overview without
   specific examples, while the OSHA site went in to much greater detial
   about specific hazards. Overall I would say the the OSHA website was
   the better source of the two.

2. list at least 2 diseased that can be transmitted by contact with:
   blood: Hepatitis B, HIV
   urine: Cytomegalovirus, Schistosomiasis
   saliva: Mononucleosis, Streptococcus
   seminal fluid: HIV, Chlamydia
   sweat: Group A Streptococcal Disease, Ebola

   Search engine: Google
   key words: "Disease" "transmitted" "through" "blood, utine, saliva,
   seminal fluid, sweat"
   site or sites: CDC.gov, mayoclinic.org, psu.edu
   evaluation: From the sources above the CDC was by far the best
   source. Coming from a .gov source is always best, because studies
   will often be linked right in the article. We can also put more trust
   into these sources knowing that they are very well researched, and
   reviewed.

3. Which body fluid poses the greatest threat in a laboratory or
   clinical setting?
   Why?
   Blood poses the greatest threat in a laboratory or clinical setting.
   Blood can contain a large number of different biohazards, and
   infection via blood is very easy. A precutaneous infection is where
   the infection is passed through the skin via infected blood, so any
   blood to skin contact is dangerous. Contact with infected blood can
   lead to infection or disease. Small cuts and puncture wounds also
   increase the likelihood of infection.

   Search engine: DuckDuckGo
   key words: "Body" "Fluid" "Greatest" "Threat" "Laboratory" "Clinical"
   site or sites: CDC.gov
   evaluation: Once again use information from the CDC seems to be the
   best choice. All of their information if very well researched and
   documented.

4. What is the proper disposal method of biohazardous material in a
   laboratory or clinical setting?
   Biohazard waste can often be disposed in a sealed and leak-proof
   biohazard bag. If a bag is likely to be punctured a second bag or
   rigid container will need to be used.

   Search engine: DuckDuckGo
   key words: "Proper" "Biohazard" "Disposal"
   site or sites: CDC.gov
   evaluation: The CDC along with OSHA put out regular updates to their
   guidlines for proper medical and biohazard wate disposal. Thos offers
   the most up to date and well researched information reguarding the
   proper disposal of biohazard waste.

5. Distinguish between the various types of hepatitis. How is each
   transmitted? What are the symptoms of each? Which is the most
   dangerous? Which is the most common?
   Hepatitis A: Non-chronic, transmitted via feces, can be prevented via
   immunization. Symptoms include, abdominal pain, fatigue, nausea, and
   jaundice due to it being a liver infection.
   Hepatitis B: Chronic, transmitted via blood or body fluids, blood to
   skin contact or other mucosal membrane, can be prevented via
   imminization or blood donor screening. All of the same above symptoms
   and including a lessened appetite.
   Hepatitis C: Chronic, transmitted via blood or body fluids, blood to
   skin contact or other mucosal membrane, can be prevented via blood
   donor screening. Many will show no symptoms but the people that do
   will appear to have liver diease.
   Hepatitis D: Chronic, transmitted via blood or body fluids after
   infection from Hepatitis B, blood to skin contact or other mucosal
   membrane, Hepatitis B immunization helps prevent Hepatitis D
   infection. Symptoms range from off-color urine, pain, loss of
   appetite, liver damage, or even death.
   Hepatitis E: Non-chronic, transmitted via feces, treat possibly
   infection water sources. Symptoms similar to Hepatitis A/B

   Search engine: DuckDuckGo
   key words: "Hepatitis" "Facts"
   site or sites: CDC.gov
   evaluation: The cdc has individual pages for each varient of
   hepatitis, inclusing symptoms, infection rate, and
   treatment/immunization options. This is a very good resource.

6. What are universal precautions? Why should they be used? When should
   they be used?
   The universal precautions were a set of precautions introduced by the
   CDC to assist the public, and workforce in preventing the
   transmission of disease through blood, or other possibly infected
   bodily fluids. The precautions include wearing personal protective
   equipment, thorough hand washing, and other situation specific
   reqirements (wearing masks when there is the possibility of an
   airborne pathogen). The precautions also include guidlines for the
   proper disposal and storage of biohazard materials.
   The universal precautions should be used in order to prevent the
   spread of disease within a clinical or laboratory setting. It is
   important to protect both yourself and those around you.
   The universal precautions should be used whenever close contact with
   potentially contaminated persons or materials is needed.

   Search engine: DuckDuckGo
   key words: "Universal" "Precautions"
   site or sites: CDC.gov, pubmed.ncbi.nlm.gov
   evaluation: I used the pubmed cite for an analysis of the originally
   CDC guidlines, along with viewing the CDC guidlines. This helped me
   to understand the reasoning behind the choices made by the CDC.

7. What was the best internet site you found on biohazards? Why?
The CDC was by far the best site I found on biohazards. Although we are
mostly dealing with a laboratory setting, the CDC guidlines will still
apply. Sanitary conditions and proper handeling of biohazard material is
important in both settings. All information on the CDC website is well
documented and researched. They also continue to do research to improve
guidelines and standards.
1. Give an example of a site that you would not trust on this topic? Why
